---
id: ky2ouefensrlll17kddz2vg
title: Types of Attributes
desc: ''
updated: 1674101714812
created: 1673749650646
---

- ## Simple attribute

An attribute that cannot further subdivided into more components is a simple attribute.

Ex: Employee id number, NIC number.

- ## Composite attribute

An attribute that can be split into components is a composite attribute.

Ex: The house address can be split into house number, street number, city, state, country, The name can be split into given name, middle name, family.

>ℹ️ Info
>
>Composite attributes will be divided into simple attributes to conserve atomicity.

- ## Single valued attribute

The attribute which takes up only a single value to represent for each entity instance is a single valued attribute.

Ex: The age of student.

- ## Multi value attributes

The attribute which takes up more than a single value to represent for each entity instance is a multi valued attribute.

Ex: Multiple phone number of user: Landline and mobile number, Emails of a user: Work and personal email.

>ℹ️ Info
>
>In normalization these multi value attributes will be extracted to a different relation to conserve atomicity.

- ## Derived attribute

An attribute that can be derived from other attributes is derived attributes

Example: Total average marks of a student, User date of birth derived by age.

>ℹ️ Extra Info
>
> These attributes will generated by taking other attributes as input most of the time auto generated.

- ## Key attribute

Key attributes are those attributes that can uniquely identify the entity in the entity set

Ex: Enrollment No is the key attribute because it can uniquely identify the student, NIC number also can uniquely identify the student

---

- ## Complex attribute

Those attributes, which can be formed by the nesting of composite and multi-valued attributes, are called **Complex Attributes**.

>⚠️ Info
>
> These attributes are rarely used in DBMS(DataBase Management System). That’s why they are not so popular. so don't think about them.

- ## Stored attribute

The stored attribute are those attribute which doesn’t require any type of further update since they are stored in the database.

Example: Date of birth is the stored attribute.

- ## Prime Attribute

A prime attribute is an attribute that is part of any [[candidate key|nibm.dse.dbms.types-of-keys#Candidate Key]] . It can also be used to uniquely identify a tuple in the schema

- ## Non Prime Attribute

Non-prime attribute is an attribute, which is not a part of the [[prime key|nibm.dse.dbms.types-of-keys#Primary Key]], is said to be a non prime attribute
